*Exercises*

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

	"A Clockwork Orange" - Text
	42 - Integer
	09/02/1945 - Date
	98.7 - Single
	$15.99 - Money

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

	Databases should be used when working with a large data set because they're necessary to search and manipulate data quickly. Text files would be used if flexibility is not required to changed and manipulate data. 

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

	SQL is a declarative language, meaning it's used specifically to access data, while other programming languages are procedural, meaning they spell out the steps needed to achieve a goal. 

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

	Databases are like spreadsheets. The pieces of data are stored in a grid system where a row encapsulates information related to a piece of data; columns organize data that is similar. Each cell contains a piece of data than is related to the information in it's row.  

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

	A table is the framework that contains the smaller bits of data. A row contains data that describes other items in that row; the data in the row is related. A column labels the data that lies within it and all the data is similar in type. A value is what is contained within each cell of the table. A value is placed strategically based off the subjects described above. 


6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

	Integers, Monetary, Date/Time

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

SELECT date, amount
FROM payments; 

// Find the columns date and amount in the payments table

result: A column containing all values in the date column, and a column containing all data in the amount column

SELECT amount 
FROM payments
WHERE amount > 500;

// Find amount column in payments table and select cells that are greater than 500

result: One cell with the value '1500.00'

SELECT * 
FROM payments
WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

// Select all columns from payments table where the payee row contains the value 'Mega Foods'

result: The entire 'Mega Foods' row: ('2016-05-15', 'Mega Foods', 124.93, 'Groceries')

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:



The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

SELECT email, signup
FROM users
WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

result: 'datad@comcast.net', '2008-01-20'



The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

SELECT userid
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

result: 1



All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = 4;

result: ( 4, 'Brandy Boolean', 'bboolean@nasa.gov', '1999-10-15')


